Hello everyone and welcome to the model forums lecture for jingle level 3.
We've seen how we can use Django forms to grab information from the user and then do something with
it on the backend.
And so far we've only printed out that information directly to the console.
Nothing too useful.
But what if we actually wanted to grab that information and save it to a model so maybe we have a user
that's signing up for a web site and we want to save their information to a model or someone's inputting
a reply post to a comment we want to save the information to a model so we can always have it on our
Web site.
How do we actually do that.
Luckily Gengel makes accepting form input and then passing it to a model.
Very simple.
Instead of inheriting from that forms that forms class were instead going to be using forms that model
form in our forms not py file this helper class allows us to create a form from a preexisting model.
We then add an inline class something we haven't actually seen before called Mehta and this medic class
provides information connecting the model to the form and that topic of an inline class is actually
really simple.
It's just a class within an other class.
Let's see some example code of what this new type of model form class would look like.
All right so this is the most generic code example that you would find inside an applications forms
that py file.
The very first thing you need to do is the actual imports just like before I will say from Django import
forms.
Except this time we're going to be using forms that model form instead of just forms that form and then
we also need to actually import our model from the models that py file inside application.
So you can import this however you want.
Typically you'll see it's done from my laptop models import my model a lot of times people also say
from datt import models not my model et cetera.
Then we have the actual form class.
So you have class whatever you want to call your form.
In this case we're calling it My new form.
And then you inherits or derive from the forms that model form class.
Class is a subclass of that model form very similar to what we did before.
Right below that you have the form fields that we showed earlier in the course.
And then we have the middle class C inline class and this is what's really going to connect the model
to the form fields.
So again the fields attribute inside of that class that inline metaclass is going to do a lot of the
connection to the model.
So right now I haven't read about certain options but let's discuss a little bit more about that inline
class.
So there are many ways to make that connection on the fields attribute of the inline class Middx.
But you first need to think about security for the fields and it's also very common to not actually
provide any additional field information.
So before I mention that form fields like we typically saw would go right below that my new form class.
But then since you're already matching up the form to match up with the model exactly you don't actually
need to specify those fields.
So you'll typically just see the inline class immediately after that form class.
That's very common to see as well.
And you can have the form be just generated completely from the model and that saves you a lot of work.
You don't have to type in those fields again.
All you have to do is say class meta model equals my model and then connect the field somehow which
we're going to talk about several options in just a little bit.
But if you want to actually use custom validators like we previously discussed then you do have to pass
in those form fields where you provide the validator parameters.
So most of the kust most of the cost of validation you'll have to provide if you want it but the automatic
cleaning and validation will be directly from your model.
So remember your model had its own constraints and those sort of validation just come automatically
when you call class.
Medha and connect that to your model.
So it's really up to you how you want to see this.
It's very common.
Just to see this class your forum and then directly below it.
Class meta and not have to worry about any customer validation.
All right let's continue on by discussing how we can actually work that fields.
Attribute that's inside the inline class Mehta.
So option 1 is just to set it to the special keyword underscore underscore or underscore underscore
and Bisco it is you're grabbing all the fields from the model you're going to place them into the form
Option two is to specify what fields you actually want to exclude.
So here you can just pass in a list of the field names that you want to exclude.
So you say my model and I actually don't want to include field one in the form or field to in the form
and then Option three is to actually list the included field instead.
So you can debate whether you have a huge model if it's easier to just include or if you have a small
model if it's easier just to exclude really depends on what is better for you.
All right so we briefly went over the options of how to connect the fields but I definitely suggest
you check out the documentation for more discussion on how to connect the fields in the forms the fields
in the model.
The documentation page is really great for the model forms.
Basically just google Django plus model forms will take you there has a ton of examples ton of different
situations and more discussion on certain security things so if you plan on making this a big Web site
where for some reason most malicious users are going to come of fields and forms is definitely something
you want to keep secure.
Django has a lot of built in stuff we've already seen things like the CSA RF tokin and even these special
calls the options take security in mind.
But if that's a big concern for you.
Definitely check out the documentation's full discussion on that.
OK so let's get some practice for all of this and what we're going to do is try adding a model form
to our pro too.
That was the second project from Gengel level 2.
So this project if you remember had a single user class in its models that py file.
Well we're going to be doing is connecting it to a form allowing users to register their names and emails
to the site and this sort of logic could easily be used to create a simple coming soon landing page.
So you've probably seen the single one page web sites where you go in there working on a project and
they say oh you know come back soon or will email you to let you know whenever the project launches
and it just has entered your name.
Enter email address and submit and we submit that information goes to a database that they can later
access.
So this is easily something you could do just based off of the information in this lecture plus everything
you've already learned about.
All right.
So to get started.
Make sure you have the pro tools folder from the jingle level to folder in the notes and to see the
completed version of this.
Check out the pro folder in the Django level 3 folder.
Again we're going to start with the finished pro to folder from a level 2 and then work with it by the
end of this lecture will have what's available to you in the notes.
Undertaking level 3 approach too.
So keep that in mind.
You want to see kind of a before and after.
And let's get started.
I'll see at the next lecture.